# Sparxmodel
Between 2004 and 2015, A. Nicklas Malik was employed at Microsoft Corporation, the majority of that time in the IT Enterprise Architecture team.  During 2011 and 2012, they were involved in creating a common conceptual model to be used to align some of the basic concepts being promoted by the EA team, including Capability, Process, Function, System, and Component.  Expanding from there, Malik involved many members of both the EA team and their peer teams in process improvement, business architecture, operations, and software architecture to create a model that allowed these concepts to be differentiated from one another, while at the same time leaving no gaps in understanding.  The model was designed to be MECE - Mutually Exclusive, Comprehensive and Exhaustive.  

The model for this conceptual model was created by Malik using a modeling tool from Sparx Systems called Enterprise Architect.  

The model did not limit itself to terms "defined" through common use in Microsoft.  Often, the team members involved would refer to external reference works like Dictionaries or Encyclopedias to understand the definition of a term.  Malik was not satisfied with using general purpose reference works and delved instead into source works where the term was to be used specifically for modeling the business.  They sought out source works from reliable and well known authors to be the starting point for these concepts.  However, those authors were not available to be consulted on the boundaries of their terms (and often did not define the concepts as much as describe them, even in their own reference materials).  Therefore, while many sources were used, including the original doctoral thesis of Alexander Osterwalder, various books on business rules by Ronald Ross, Wharton school references on business analysis, and various papers published by the ACM and IEEE, these source definitions were refined, sharpened, and carefully edited by Malik and his team in Microsoft to ensure that the terms were mutually exclusive. 

The entire model itself was not actually useful for Microsoft's IT department to use, given that it included definitions of strategic analysis.  Therefore, a subset of the overall model was labeled, within Microsoft, as the Common Conceptual Model and was published internally in 2012. It was used to create the first full map of a major corporation, Microsoft.  That internal model of Microsoft was not widely circulated but it was used occasionally in the planning of software and services within the IT department.

At the request of Nick Malik, and given the approval of Barry Briggs, who was, at that the time, the Chief Architect of Microsoft, the full model was released into open source in 2012 under the name "Enterprise Business Motivation Model."  This was a metamodel, a model used to identify elements to be used in other models, focused on the field of Enterprise Architecture.  Unlike the model proposed by John Zachman in the 1980's, this model was more directly applicable to the task of modeling an actual running business.  A reasonable comparison would be to suggest that Zachman's model was similar to the periodic table of elements, while the EBMM is a description of a collected set of organic molecules.  

Once released, it became clear that there were a number of gaps in the EBMM.  Through collaboration with a number of external collaborators, mostly found through discussions on LinkedIn, the model was gradually improved over the course of the next two years, with a stable verion (version 5) being published in 2014.  This model stood, for a few years, as the EA field's only generally available Enterprise Architecture Metamodel.  A few years after the publication of the EBMM, The Open Group published a metamodel of their own which became part of TOGAF.  Many EA tool vendors had their own metamodel built in to their tools but they had not been released in public prior to that point in time.  (Even today, in 2024, some tool vendors protect their tool's metamodel as though it is a trade secret).

The model remained unchanged between 2014 and 2024, published as a static set of HTML pages on a wordpress website on the domain http://motivationmodel.com 
However, in the spring of 2024, a hactivist group, upset of Nick Malik for a controversial stand he had taken in social media, attacked and defaced his sites, largely destroying the representation and organization of concepts published on that site.  At the request of one particular collaborator who, over the years, found the EBMM useful, this Github repository was created to share the EBMM more fully.  
